---
layout: note
title: "A05: Student advisor"
due: "Oct 3, 11:59pm"
categories: [assignments]
---

# A05: Student advisor

This assignment helps you practice designing and using an expert system. Your task is to write rules for the [Drools rules engine](/notes/drools.html) for a student advisor expert system. A student advisor system would guide students on class selection based on their major (and corresponding major requirements), the classes they have already taken and their grade, and their interests. For this assignment, we'll restrict our focus to CSCI majors, the system will only need to suggest classes for the next semester, and we'll ignore non-major classes and general education requirements.

## Template projects

These templates include all the Drools libraries (JAR files), plus example Java code and a DRL rules file.

- Eclipse: [student-advisor-eclipse.zip](/zips/student-advisor-eclipse.zip)
- IntelliJ IDEA: [student-advisor-intellij.zip](/zips/student-advisor-intellij.zip)

## Knowledge base

### Facts

Every fact has a type, i.e., a class. You can create types in your DRL file, but these cannot be referenced in your main Java code. Ultimately, you'll probably want at least these types:

- `Student` type: name
- `Course` type: course name, course number, unit count; note, prerequisites can be complex so they're better represented as rules
- `Semester` type: semester name, year
- `CourseAttempt` type: student attempted a course in a particular semester and earned a particular grade
- `Preference` type: some student has some preference, e.g., preference for security or AI or networks

### Rules

- Course prerequisites; these can be complex, e.g., prereqs for CSCI 211: "CSCI 141 and either MATH 141Q or MATH 130 or MATH 125Q"
- Major requirements; include minimum GPA requirements

Refer to the [Stetson Catalog](http://catalog.stetson.edu/undergraduate/arts-sciences/computer-science/computer-science-bs/) for the requirements for a CSCI degree. You'll need to include some math courses as well as CSCI/CINF courses in order to represent the various prereqs and major requirements.

### Goals

- Which classes should I take next?
- Which classes do I still need?
- What are my options to satisfy some requirement, e.g., elective major courses?

## Deliverables

Submit all your source code and DRL files.

## Grading rubric

Out of 5 points:

